I had come to New York, and when I came to New York on
NMU business, I usually stayed in the apartment in
the NMU building.
And Perry came in one night and said, Hoyt, I've
just worked out the situation on the officer's
slate. I want to see what you think of it. So he
started that. Mel Beresik, to replace Joe. Then
went on down the officers, and I said, well, let's
go back to your number one. Why did you select Mel
Barisik as the number one?
He said, well, because he always does what he's
told to do. I said, well, that's not a very good
reason as long as you're telling him what to do,
because you're usually telling him the wrong
thing to do. So Perry said, what do you mean by that?
I said, well, I mean such things as you telling them
to go down and shake down the steamship company for
$5,000 for this and $5,000 for that, so it will go in
your pocket. He said, I don't think that's a good
reason for selecting a man to be president of the
union.
So.
I said, I don't think he ought to be president. I
think Shannon Wall ought to be president. Oh, he's
a bunch of bullshit. I said, he's only a bunch of
bullshit because you can't drive him around all
the time and tell him what to do. That's not enough
reason. This was some time before the thing
finally came to head, maybe four or five months. So
he kept fussing around with this. And he finally
said, well, I finally decided that you're right.
It ought to be Shannon Wall. And about that time, he
got fired. Not over that issue, but other issues.
But this
is the kind of a guy he was. All he wanted to do was
control things. He found out that he could control
Joe not by, trying to pay him off with anything, but
by just using his ego.
But
Joe again had decided to go after Mel Barisi.
And I said, Joe,
I don't want to influence you on this. I want you to
make your own decision, which you always do. For
God's sake, go home and think about this. Remember
that Mel Berezik is going to replace Joe Kern. He's
not only got to carry on what Joe Kern has carried on
in the past, but he's got to build on that in the
future. And you go home and think about this and
think in terms of, is he the man that you really
think can carry this union on to the heights to
which you have brought it.
That's all I had to say to him. The next day, he
called Shannon Wall and said, I want you to come to
Florida with me. And that's when he decided to put
Shannon Wall in as president. And subsequently
retire himself. And then he retired.
But you know, it's a funny thing. Joe wouldn't
retire until after I retired.
And at this time, Joe and I were on very bad personal
terms over our job. Over Perry? Perry and his son.
Joe's son? Yeah.
But even in those bad times, you feel that Joe Kern
considered you as a very trusted counsel. Yes, I
do. I still think he trusted my word because I had
proved right too many times to him on the Perry
thing was the last thing. He couldn't help but
recognize what I had been telling him to be the
truth for so long. See, I had delivered to him in
writing names and dates and amounts on Perry of
shaking down steamship corners,
which he wouldn't believe.
Then he found out they were true. He found out from
one of the companies, too. Said, sure, we paid
Perry off. We paid him over a half million dollars
to get rid of our passenger ships.
Well, in your opinion, what was the result of the
loss of the passenger ship contracts to the NMU?
Loss of half of their membership.
And you feel that Perry was at least indirectly, if
not directly, responsible for that? I'm sure the
steamship companies could prove that he was
responsible. I can't.
And now that's something you don't want to put in
your write-up. I'm not asking for lawsuits, which
I can't prove. Absolutely. Just briefly, going
back to the 1945, 47, and 49 conventions, where the
communists, particularly under Stack and under
Myers, and later Lawrenson, decided to take
Curran on and attempt to remove him. Who was
directing Joe Curran? Nobody. Helping him fight
against him? I was certainly meeting with him. I'm
trying to remember who was attorneys then. If it
was Cooper, Cooper was trying to help him. I don't
know whether Cooper was there then or not. What
about William L. Standard? I think Standard was
gone by that time. I'm just not sure.
Standard would not have been helping him.
So any tactics that were used to help maneuver?
They were Joe's. They were Joe's. Nobody else's
but Joe's. It was literally the personal, his
personal weight, his personal relations with the
seamen. Because the commies had that convention
well organized
and Some of the commies themselves voted against
Stack because they could not perceive the union
without a Joe Curran as president.
In the 1947 convention, where Joe is much better
organized, Where was this convention? Boston?
I'm not sure where that one was located. One of the
persons I interviewed mentioned that one of the
techniques that Joe used in order to keep the floor
open to comments from people who were more
favorable toward him was to outmaneuver Stack and
his followers who had, as you mentioned, had
organized very well for the 45 convention. Do you
know of any techniques that Joe Kern used? Well, he
just knew the people, and he would call upon the
people he knew who weren't commies, that's all. A
very simple chairmanship work. Did you know, or
were you cognizant of a technique he used where he
issued procuring people a red card and had them
place it on his book when they raised their hand to
be recognized? Seems to me that I remember that
being done, but I'm not sure of it.
This may or may not be true. I just don't remember.
It strikes a note, but not enough to bring anything
to mind. How influential was his first wife, Red,
on him?
In terms of union activities, I would say almost
nothing. This was a personal relationship. It
didn't enter into the unionism. She stayed very
much out of it. But in terms of,
they were very close. And anything that she would
do that...
She could tear him to pieces if she wanted to. She
never wanted to do that. But she did. She got
cancer. And she knew she had cancer long before
June of it. And on two or three occasions, she just
got up and left. because she couldn't face telling
him. And he didn't know where she was, and the son
didn't know where she was or anything. She did this
twice, and this just practically wrecked Joe. But
this was just a personal relationship, and she was
thinking more of him than she was of herself. And
she did the wrong thing, of course, to do it the way
she did, because it didn't save him any pain.
really made more pain for him. Would have been
better if she'd have gone ahead and told him
sooner.
Do you have any interesting anecdotes in your
career as a lobbyist for the CIO Maritime
Community, or in your relationship with Joe
Kieran, or other members of the NMU that might be of
interest?
or insights into his personality, his character,
or his makeup?
Well, I would say that Joel Kearns basically was
very steadfast.
If you were a friend of his, you were a friend of his.
And if he believed in you, he believed in you
wholeheartedly. Perry is a good example of this.
He just trusted Perry almost completely right up
until the end. And he would do anything for Perry.
But he was like that with anyone that he trusted. I
think he basically trusted most people until they
crossed him.
From your own personal opinion, what would you
consider to be your greatest accomplishment for
maritime labor? Nothing. Nothing? Literally
nothing. I spent
from 1941 to 1972 down here working for the
merchant marine. It was in worse shape when I left
than it was when I started. So I don't consider that
any accomplishment whatsoever. Some people say
that I helped keep it from being completely wiped
out. Well, I don't consider that any
accomplishment either. Maybe it would have been
better completely wiped out than to screw along as
it is now.
He's the only president that ever hung up a phone on
me.
I called him one day. He was pushing an omnibus tax
bill. And I called him up and I said, Mr. President,
with all of your experience in the Senate and as
president and as vice president, you undoubtedly
know that historically
no omnibus tax bill has ever gotten passed that was
not worse than when it started out. I said, I want to
suggest to you that if there is something you want
done in taxes that you take it up one at a time and do
it. He says, Hoyt, I've decided to push the omnibus
tax bill, which I asked to get him pressed. I said,
but Mr. President, you know. And he hung up on me.
So I can say that he's the only president that's
ever hung up on me.
Literally, we took every program that we could.
One of the things that the union was interested in
was making the merchant seaman a part of the
community, wherever he came from, and making him a
respectable part of that community, even though
he was away from home. So we did everything or
anything that we could do that we thought would
implement that idea. Did you have any particular
ideas that you presented? I had a lot of ideas, but I
don't remember them. Matter of fact, if I don't put
them down on paper, I don't remember them five
minutes, just like yesterday. I called the United
Seaman Service. I had developed a whole group of
things that I wanted in a manual for the board
members of the United Seaman Service. And we
brought it up at a national of my nominating
committee, where we discussed them, and adopted
them, and recommended them to the next board
meeting, and got them adopted. And I didn't have a
copy of them, so I called the office in New York for a
copy of them, because the office yet had not
implemented the resolution. I wanted to know why
they hadn't, and I said, Give me the list of them so
I'm going to put together a package of my own, and
I'll give it to you. Then you have got to do the thing
for the rest of the board members. But that's true
on almost anything I work on. First of all, I do have
a bad memory. Second of all, I do not try to remember
things which I know are going to be recorded. Make
no attempt to. But I've worked out thousands of
programs for the unions and the United Seaman's
Service, Four Freedoms, and what have you. I don't
know what they are. I could go look at them, read
through and find them, and say, yes, I had
something to do with that, put that together.